It's absolutely amazing here, honestly one of the best sceneries I've ever seen in my life. Definitely something you should add on your trip to China, it's a must. Even here on the boat we made some friends and they kept offering us food, but it's very interesting about their cuisine and what they eat here in China. This is the room with the view actually, it's a bit more expensive than the other ones, but it's worth it. We managed to find a taxi, we had to negotiate a bit and we're still paying more than what our hotel recommended us. Nihao from China! Today we are going to visit one of the most beautiful and popular places here and it's so famous that it's even featured on the 20 yuan banknote here in China. I'm talking about Li River, it was called by National Geographic one of the 10 watery wonders in the world, so that's a big deal. It's also part of the UNESCO natural heritage, we're really excited to see it. What's really interesting about this river is the karst formations that we will see and how we will do it is by taking a cruise on it from Guilin to Yangshuo, where we will spend the next night. In order to do this cruise you need to be based in Guilin because the pickup for the tours is from your hotel there and we got the tour booked from our accommodation. We saw some other options online but they were more expensive so I recommend you ask your accommodation first. Also I will leave you the link in the description below with our accommodation which is really recommended, super cheap, super good, reliable in terms of tours. So we were picked up from our hotel, brought here to the pier by the bus and it was really funny because nobody speaks English, not even our tour guide and she was speaking all the way here very loudly in a fluent Chinese, but it was funny. Anyway, right now we are already on the river, on the boat. We're gonna prepare to get started. I mean everybody is starting the trip and look, it's a huge port here. Lots of boats, lots of people everywhere, the organization is very good. We're gonna see what is inside, a lot of interesting things, people wearing traditional port. So let's get started! If you want to take pictures, come early on the deck because it's really crowded and we've been down for just 20 minutes. It's absolutely amazing here, honestly one of the best sceneries I've ever seen in my life. All of these karst formations are incredible and they are everywhere. Since we left until now and I think until we reach Yangshuo, all the scenery will look like this. It's an incredible landscape, honestly. It's not a landscape that we haven't seen before but here it's at a larger scale. The karst formations are everywhere, definitely something you should add on your trip to China, it's a must. So I can't see the end but we'll see it through People here in China were so kind to us already. Even here on the boat we made some friends and they kept offering us food. Some fruits we haven't tried, some snacks, now these flowers. I think these are to be eaten. I hope we can eat them. Anyway, very very nice people. We didn't have time to film them but so you know. Let me smell it, it smells good but it might be a soap as well. Oh my god, what if it's a soap? Soap? It smells, yeah, it smells like it. Okay, eat it. It's kind of flowerish. So the presentation matches the taste. It's not soap. No? No. Okay, let me try. I don't know, let's see. I hope it's not soap. Very good, thank you friend. It's a good cookie but definitely not our style. I mean we are used to different kind of food. It tastes like detergent. Something very sweet. Yeah, I told you it smells like soap and it tastes like it. But the texture is not like soap, it's like marzipan the texture. Yeah. Yeah, funny. Anyway, the thing is people here share everything with us. And they are very kind and thank you very much for everything you are doing. Amazing, amazing. Yeah, they offer to take pictures, everything. The good part is that after you eat this, your breath is smelling very good. We use Google Translate and it seems it's osmanthus cake. And when I searched osmanthus on Google, it's a flower that looks like this. A bit like jasmine, you see? That's why it tastes flowerish. Benefits, let's see. Slimming and weight loss. Reduction of blood lipids. Stomach reinforcement. But it's very interesting about their cuisine and what they eat here in China. That everything is very healthy and has properties. I don't know, the teas they drink, it's very different. Amazing, amazing. But we keep learning things that probably we will use them at home. So we made it to Yangshuo. It was an amazing trip and already the atmosphere is very nice here. We're crossing through a market. We need to figure our way to the accommodation. But stick with us to show it to you because we have big expectations of it. I've seen some pictures and it should be one of the nicest we've had. So let's go. So we managed to find a taxi just in time because after we got in it started raining. So we're in an electric tuk-tuk heading to the hotel. It's a branded electric. Yeah, so we had to negotiate a bit and we're still paying more than what our hotel recommended us. But it's still affordable so we didn't want to negotiate too much. We just wanted to get home sooner. Bye, bye, bye. Are you ready for the room tour? We made it and it's as beautiful as I've imagined it or even more. So let's turn the camera around to see Alex going. Okay, first of all the view. This is the room with the view actually. It's a bit more expensive than the other ones but it's worth it. We have a bed, a desk outside, a desk inside and a bedroom that I'll show you if you're interested. But it's normal and then the view. Wow and you have also swimming pool. Yeah, amazing. So let's turn it this way and we have here a bathroom. What is really nice here is that we also have free washing machines and free detergent. So we can wash all of our clothes. We have free drinking water. As you've seen we have the pool. They rent scooters from here which we will do I don't know if today or tomorrow. We are paying for this room per night only 35 dollars. What do you think? I'll leave you the link in the description below. And don't forget there are even cheaper options here. This is an upgrade let's say with this amazing view. But even the other rooms I've seen that they have a nice view but it's more of the city. So guys it's time to go to refresh a bit and rest because we woke up at 6am and we are a bit tired. I hope you enjoyed today's episode and that I convinced you to add the cruise on Li River on your bucket list. Don't forget to leave a like in case you enjoyed today's episode and subscribe to see our next adventures here in China because it's gonna be epic. Bye!